Part 3 Summary 

We decided to test learning rate, batch size, number of epochs, and transformations with pre-trained weights used in our models.  

A previous iteration of the model using random weights with a learning rate of 1e-4 gave a validation accuracy of 72.14%. When switching to pre-trained weights with the same learning rate, the validation accuracy greatly improved and jumped to 98.7%. The number of epochs and batch size were kept at the default we used previously at 5 and 48, respectively. Changing the batch size with pre-trained weights from a batch size of 16 to 128 (learning rate 1e-4 and 10 epochs) produced the same validation accuracy for both models at 98.5%. Rerunning the model (epoch 5 and learning rate 0.01) without pretrained weights while changing the batch size produced the following validation accuracies: batch size 16 = 52%, batch size 64 = 44%, batch size 128 = 46%.  

Adjusting the number of epochs and using pretrained weights allowed the model to perform significantly better. Without the pretrained weights and with epochs set to 5, the best accuracy that would be expected was around 65-69%. With the addition, validation accuracy rose to 98.4% and loss hovered around 0.05%. When we used a combination of the pre-trained weights and various combinations of transformations, only the pre-trained weights appeared to be affecting the model accuracy. The weights alone brought the validation accuracy to about 90%, and adding the three transformations I tried in different combinations didn’t affect the accuracy more than +/- 3%. 

Using pre-trained weights resulted in the greatest improvement to the model, with learning rate and epochs further increasing the validation accuracy. Batch size and transformations had little effect on the overall accuracy. At minimum, for this dataset we recommend using pre-trained weights and setting the learning rate to 0.0001. Further improvement to the model can be achieved with 5 epochs but up to 10 maintains nearly the same validation accuracy. For future models, adjusting these parameters first may lead to greater validation accuracy when training models. 